zkp/tests/Readme.md, before:

# Tests for Circuits

1. How the test works?
   1. `workflow.test.ts` tests with the CLI. The other tests are based on `circom_tester`.
      - some of the `circom_tester` function are replaced:
        - release(): the original one doesn't work
        - assertOut() && loadSymbols(): built-in loadSymbols() failed when reading large `.sym` files.
      - `circom_tester` is configured in `vitest.config.ts`
   2. The class WitnessTester is an extension of `circom_tester` and is modified from circomkit.
      - [./util/construction.ts](./util/construction.ts)
        - find the correct `circomlib` path in `zkp/node_modules`
        - generate untagged template
          - Why needs untag? the input of main template cannot have tag
        - construct the wasm_tester through the API provided by `circom_tester`.

2. The functions in [./logic](./logic) simulate the behavior of the circuits.
   - The input and output types of the functions are aligned with the circuits (except for the functions in modules).
   - [./logic/modules](./logic/modules) contain simulated implementations of key ZKP components in our will system.
     - e.g., AES-CTR(GCM), ECDSA, Kaccak256, etc.
     - Each of the module contain test inside it.
     - The implementations are not used for production (worse performance compared to official modules, incomplete functioning). Rather, they are only used for debuggin and testing the circom.
   - For exmaple, there are two `ecdsa.ts` files under the logic directory.
     - [./logic/modules/ecdsa.ts](./logic/modules/ecdsa.ts): Naive inplementation of ECDSA. You can observe ECDSA signing scheme's behavior with this ECDSA class.
     - [./logic/ecdsa.ts](./logic/ecdsa.ts): plays as interface for testing the ecdsa circuits and calling [./logic/modules/ecdsa.ts](./logic/modules/ecdsa.ts) under the hood.

3. Test commands can be found in package.json:

   ```json
    "test": ...,
    "test:light": ...,
    "test:heavy": ...,
    "test:circuits": ...,
    "test:abiEncoder": ...,
    "test:keccak256": ...,
    "test:aesgcm": ...,
    "test:ecdsa": ...,
    "test:permitVerify": ...,
    "test:modules": ...,
    "test:all": ...,
   ```

   - Tests of circuits are devided into heavy tests (with `.heavy` in suffix) and light tests. Heavy tests consume more momeries so the parameter `NODE_OPTIONS='--max-old-space-size=16384` prepends the vitest command. You can run all the circuits tests at once by `pnpm test:circuits`
   - Tests of modules can be runned at once by `pnpm test:modules`.
   - If you run all the tests at once (`pnpm test` or `pnpm test:all`), some of the tests might fail not due to issues about circuits but due to running out of memory. In that case you can run the failed tests independently: `pnpm test <test_file>.test.ts`.

4. After running the tests, you can find the number of constrains for each circuit (template) in [../constrainCounts.json](../constrainCounts.json)
   - The order of the constrain counts can be rearranged [./config/constraintCounts.json](./config/constraintCounts.json)
     - Delete the original [../constraintCounts.json](../constraintCounts.json) so that the new arrangement can take effect.

Commit message:

circom done, tests done, tests doc updated

zkp/tests/Readme.md, after:

# Tests for Circuits

1. How the test works?
   1. `workflow.test.ts` tests with the CLI. The other tests are based on `circom_tester`.
      - some of the `circom_tester` function are replaced:
        - release(): the original one doesn't work
        - assertOut() && loadSymbols(): built-in loadSymbols() failed when reading large `.sym` files.
      - `circom_tester` is configured in `vitest.config.ts`
   2. The class WitnessTester is an extension of `circom_tester` and is modified from circomkit.
      - [./util/construction.ts](./util/construction.ts)
        - find the correct `circomlib` path in `zkp/node_modules`
        - generate untagged template
          - Why needs untag? the input of main template cannot have tag
        - construct the wasm_tester through the API provided by `circom_tester`.

2. The functions in [./logic](./logic) simulate the behavior of the circuits.
   - The input and output types of the functions are aligned with the circuits (except for the functions in modules).
   - [./logic/modules](./logic/modules) contain simulated implementations of key ZKP components in our will system.
     - e.g., AES-CTR(GCM), ECDSA, Kaccak256, etc.
     - Each of the module contain test inside it.
     - The implementations are not used for production (worse performance compared to official modules, incomplete functioning). Rather, they are only used for debuggin and testing the circom.
   - For exmaple, there are two `ecdsa.ts` files under the logic directory.
     - [./logic/modules/ecdsa.ts](./logic/modules/ecdsa.ts): Naive inplementation of ECDSA. You can observe ECDSA signing scheme's behavior with this ECDSA class.
     - [./logic/ecdsa.ts](./logic/ecdsa.ts): plays as interface for testing the ecdsa circuits and calling [./logic/modules/ecdsa.ts](./logic/modules/ecdsa.ts) under the hood.

3. Test commands can be found in package.json:

   ```json
    "test": ...,
    "test:auto": ...,
    "test:manual": ...,
    "test:abiEncoder": ...,
    "test:keccak256": ...,
    "test:aesgcm": ...,
    "test:ecdsa": ...,
    "test:permitVerify": ...,
    "test:modules": ...,
    "test:all": ...,
   ```

   - Tests of circuits are devided into manual tests (with `.manual` in suffix) and automatic tests. Manual tests consume too much momeries for circom_tester to afford. To handle these situations, the `<filename>.manual.test.ts` only print inputs to the circuits and left the job of compilation to the devepoler.
     - For example, to test `UploadCid` template in [../circuits/cidUpload/cidUpload.circom](../circuits/cidUpload/cidUpload.circom)
       1. `pnpm test cidUpload.manual.test.ts`
       2. Copy the inputs to [../circuits/cidUpload/inputs/example.json](../circuits/cidUpload/inputs/example.json)
       3. Run the script in [../Makefile](../Makefile) to compile the circuit and generate the witness.
          - Note: Some of the inputs are expected to "fail".
   
   - Tests of modules can be runned at once by `pnpm test:modules`.
   - If you run all the tests at once (`pnpm test` or `pnpm test:all`), some of the tests might fail not due to issues about circuits but due to running out of memory. In that case you can run the failed tests independently: `pnpm test <test_file>.test.ts`.

4. After running the tests, you can find the number of constrains for each circuit (template) in [../constrainCounts.json](../constrainCounts.json)
   - The order of the constrain counts can be rearranged [./config/constraintCounts.json](./config/constraintCounts.json)
     - Delete the original [../constraintCounts.json](../constraintCounts.json) so that the new arrangement can take effect.
